Navigating Directory 
	Command | Purpose 
	ls	list files in current directory
	ls -al	list all files in current dir, including dot files
	ls -al | grep string	show file name matching string
	cd dirpath	change directory
	cd	go to $HOME dir
	cd ..	go up one dir
	pwd	show the current dir




File/Directory Manipulation
	touch filename	create a new file, or update timestamp of the file if it exists already.
	rm filename	delete a file
	rm -r dirname	delete a directory. (careful!)
	cp filename new_filename	copy a file
	cp -r dirname new_name	copy a dir
	mkdir new_dir_name	create a new dir
	rmdir dirname	delete a dir only if it is empty
	mv filename new_name	rename file, or move to a diff dir.
	du -sh dirname	show dir size



Viewing Files
	cat fname	display file content
	cat fname | more	view a file by page. Type 【q】 to exit. Type 【h】 for other keys.
	vi fname	view a file. Type 【Escape : q】 to exit. [see vim Basics]
	head fname	view the first few lines of a file. (most useful for big files, e.g. log file.)
	tail fname	view the last few lines of a file.
	tail -f fname	view the last few lines of a growing file, updated continuously. Typically used on log files.
	file fname	report what type of file it is. (For example, text, jpg, png, pdf, ….)



Locating Commands
	type cmd	show if cmd is a shell built-in or standalone program. For example, type kill. The command type is a built-in bash command, not a standalone shell util. Try type type
	which cmd	show full path of a command, useful for checking if a program is installed (if it's in the search path in $PATH environment variable.)
	man cmd	view documentation of a command. 【q】 to exit. 【h】 for help.
	apropos string	search man pages.
	locate fname	find a file by name (using the database see man updatedb). This is similar to find dir_paths -name "*fname*" but much faster.
	updatedb	update the database used by locate. (this is done automatically. Useful only if you just installed bunch of new commands.)


Install Program/Package
	following commands are for Ubuntu Linux
	apt-cache search name	find package name for install by “apt-get”
	apt-cache show name	describe package name
	apt-get install name	install a new program. (usually used with sudo in front)
	apt-get remove name	remove (un-install) a program.
	apt-get purge name	remove a program and its config files.
	dpkg -l	list all installed packages
	apt-get update	sync package index files from sources. (need to do this regularly)
	apt-get upgrade	upgrade all installed packages to latest versions (if any).
	apt-get dist-upgrade	update OS kernel, and others.